[8887] ADR doc to assess changing `awarding` terminology to `holds` (#5630)
DFE-Digital/register-trainee-teachers: docs/adr/0013-spike-rename-awarded-to-holds.md

# 13. Rename 'awarded' to 'holds'

Date: 2025-09-17

## Status

Pending

## Context

> Register uses the term 'awarded' to describe the end state for trainees that have attained there teaching qualification. This term permeates many parts of the system. For example, trainee records have `recommended_for_award_at` and `awarded_at` attributes to record the milestones for the trainee gaining their award.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Register uses the term 'awarded' to describe the end state for trainees that have attained their teaching qualification. This term permeates many parts of the system. For example, trainee records have `recommended_for_award_at` and `awarded_at` attributes to record the milestones for the trainee gaining their award.
```

- awarded (the trainee status etc.)
- awarded at (trainee attribute)
- recommended for award (trainee status)
- recommended for award at (trainee status)
- not awarded
- award type
- EYTS awarded / QTS awarded (for filtering trainees - not sure this is used)
- award standards met
- awarding institution (this relates to degrees rather than teacher training so is out of scope)
- pending awards
- award date
- waiting for award
- awarded this year

The term 'holds' (or 'held') can replace the word 'awarded' but doesn't make much sense in other contexts where a noun is needed e.g. 'award'. So we need to come up with a clear terminology.

## Essential changes

Once we have worked out what the correct terminology is we can start working on the implementation.

### Front-end changes

Updates to:

- view templates
- component templates
- localisable strings

For these we need a consistent approach to how we handle the different variations of the terminology as outlined above.

#### Status labels

For the `recommended_for_award` state we display a label that depends on the type of qualification:

- _Recommended for EYTS_
- _Recommended for QTS_

> These already hide the word 'award' so they don't need to change.

Reviewer: My understanding is that even the 'recommend' terminology might need to change so we may want to soften the language here.
```suggestion
These already hide the word 'award' so they may not need to change.
```
